Updated model card for distilbert (#37157)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/distilbert.md

# DistilBERT

> <div style="float: right;">

Author: This is fixed

> <div style="float: right;">

Author: Added missing badges

    </div>
</div>

# DistilBERT: The Efficient Alternative to BERT

> DistilBERT offers the power of BERT in a more accessible package. First introduced in the blog post [Smaller, faster, cheaper, lighter: Introducing DistilBERT, a distilled version of BERT](https://medium.com/huggingface/distilbert-8cf3380435b5) and academic paper [DistilBERT, a distilled version of BERT: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.01108), this model delivers impressive performance with fewer resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[DistilBERT](https://huggingface.co/papers/1910.01108) is pretrained by knowledge distillation to create a smaller model with faster inference and requires less compute to train. Through a triple loss objective during pretraining, language modeling loss, distillation loss, cosine-distance loss, DistilBERT demonstrates similar performance to a larger transformer language model.
```

Author: Resolved

> Why Choose DistilBERT?
> 
> * Lightweight Design: Contains 40% fewer parameters than google-bert/bert-base-uncased
> * Speed Advantage: Runs 60% faster than the original BERT
> * Minimal Performance Loss: Maintains over 95% of BERT's performance on the GLUE benchmark
> * Cost-Effective: Requires less computational power for training and inference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> DistilBERT achieves this efficiency through knowledge distillation, where a smaller model is trained to reproduce the behavior of a larger one. This makes it ideal for applications with limited computational resources or when deployment speed matters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This model was contributed by [victorsanh](https://huggingface.co/victorsanh). This model jax version was
> contributed by [kamalkraj](https://huggingface.co/kamalkraj). The original code can be found [here](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers-research-projects/tree/main/distillation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can find the official checkpoints for this model on the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/models).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the original DistilBERT checkpoints under the [DistilBERT](https://huggingface.co/distilbert) organization.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the DistilBERT models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply DistilBERT to different language tasks.
```

> > [!TIP]
> > Click on the right sidebar for more examples of how to use this model for other tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The examples below demonstrate how to use DistilBERT for text classification with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how to classify text with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.
```

<hfoptions id="usage">

<hfoption id="Pipeline">

>     ```py

Reviewer: The code example doesn't need to be indented.

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

pipeline = pipeline(
   task="text-classification",
   model="distilbert/distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english",
   torch_dtype=torch.float16,
   device=0
)
pipeline("I love using Hugging Face Transformers!")
```

Reviewer: This hasn't been resolved yet

    from transformers import pipeline

    classifier = pipeline(
        task="text-classification",
        model="distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english"
    )

    result = classifier("I love using Hugging Face Transformers!")
    print(result)
    # Output: [{'label': 'POSITIVE', 'score': 0.9998}]
    ```
</hfoption>

<hfoption id="AutoModel">
    ```py

>     from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForSequenceClassification

Reviewer: No need to indent here either

```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification, AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(
    "distilbert/distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english",
)
model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(
    "distilbert/distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
    attn_implementation="sdpa"
)
inputs = tokenizer("I love using Hugging Face Transformers!", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)

predicted_class_id = torch.argmax(outputs.logits, dim=-1).item()
predicted_label = model.config.id2label[predicted_class_id]
print(f"Predicted label: {predicted_label}")
```

Reviewer: This hasn't been resolved yet

Author: Resolved now

    import torch.nn.functional as F

    # Load a fine-tuned model for sentiment analysis
    model_name = "distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english"
    tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_name)
    model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(model_name)

    # Tokenize and run inference
    inputs = tokenizer("I love using Hugging Face Transformers!", return_tensors="pt")
    outputs = model(**inputs)

    # Convert logits to probabilities
    probs = F.softmax(outputs.logits, dim=-1)

    # Get prediction
    prediction = model.config.id2label[outputs.logits.argmax(-1).item()]
    confidence = probs[0][outputs.logits.argmax(-1).item()].item()

    print(f"Prediction: {prediction}, Confidence: {confidence:.4f}")
    # Output: Prediction: POSITIVE, Confidence: 0.9998
    ```
</hfoption>

<hfoption id="transformers-cli">

>     ```bash

Reviewer: No indentation needed :)

```bash
# pip install -U flash-attn --no-build-isolation
echo -e "I love using Hugging Face Transformers!" | transformers-cli run --task text-classification --model_name_or_path distilbert/distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english --torch_dtype auto --attn_implementation flash_attention_2 --device 0
```

    echo -e "I love using Hugging Face Transformers!" | transformers-cli run --task text-classification --model distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english
    ```
</hfoption>

</hfoptions>

## Notes

- DistilBERT doesn't have `token_type_ids`, you don't need to indicate which token belongs to which segment. Just
  separate your segments with the separation token `tokenizer.sep_token` (or `[SEP]`).
- DistilBERT doesn't have options to select the input positions (`position_ids` input). This could be added if
  necessary though, just let us know if you need this option.

> - Same as BERT but smaller. Trained by distillation of the pretrained BERT model, meaning it’s been trained to predict the same probabilities as the larger model. The actual objective is a combination of:
> 
>     * finding the same probabilities as the teacher model
>     * predicting the masked tokens correctly (but no next-sentence objective)
>     * a cosine similarity between the hidden states of the student and the teacher model

Reviewer: Not directly usage related, more about the training process

```suggestion
```
